add doc on configuring component sizes on astronomer software (#3910)
astronomer/docs: software/configure-component-size-limits.md

---

> sidebar_label: 'Overview'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Configure component size limits'
```

> title: 'Configure component size-limits'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Configure component size limits'
```

   - name: redis
     au:
       default: 2
       minimum: 2
       limit: 2
   ```

- **Celery Workers**

   ```yaml
   - name: workers
     au:
       default: 10
       minimum: 1
       limit: 30
     extra:
       - name: terminationGracePeriodSeconds
         default: 600
         minimum: 0
         limit: 36000
       - name: replicas
         default: 1
         minimum: 1
         limit: 10
   ```

- **Triggerer**

   ```yaml
   - name: triggerer
     au:
       default: 5
       minimum: 5
       limit: 30
     extra:
       - name: replicas
         default: 1
         minimum: 0
         limit: 2
         minAirflowVersion: 2.2.0
   ```

### Configure the size of KubernetesExecutor task pods {#configure-kubernetes-task-pod-size}

Kubernetes Executor task pods are defined at the task level when the DAG passes resource requests as part of `executor_config` into the Operator. When not defined, these tasks default to using 1 AU, which is one-tenth of a Vcpu/384 Mi of memory. This means that when you define resource requests or limits for CPU and memory, ensure the [maximum pod size](#configure-max-pod-size) is large enough to avoid errors during pod creation.

:::danger

> Astronomer Software does not automatically raise then namespace-level cumulative resource-limits for pods created by KubernetesExecutor. To avoid pod-creation failures, increase `maxExtraAu`s to support your desired level of resourcing and concurrency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer Software does not automatically raise the namespace-level cumulative resource limits for pods created by the KubernetesExecutor. To avoid pod creation failures, increase the `maxExtraAu` to support your desired level of resourcing and concurrency.
```

For example, to increase the maximum size a Celery worker task can be from 30 AU (3 Vcpu/11.5Gi) to 50AU (3 Vcpu/192Gi), add the full Celery worker component definition to `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.components` in your `values.yaml` with a higher limit (defined in AUs) as per the following example:

:::tip
When raising cpu/memory limits, ensure the [maximum pod size](#configuring-max-pod-size) is large enough to avoid errors during pod-creation.
:::

```yaml
astronomer:
  houston:
    config:
      deployments:
        components:
        - name: workers
          au:
            default: 10
            minimum: 1
            limit: 50 # default was 30
          extra:
            - name: terminationGracePeriodSeconds
              default: 600
              minimum: 0
              limit: 36000
            - name: replicas
              default: 1
              minimum: 1
              limit: 10
        # any additional component configurations go here
        # - name: another-component
        #   au:
        #     default: 10
        #     ...
```

### Configurable Components {#list-of-configurable-components}

> :::info
> When [defining components](#configuring-individual-deployment-components) the **full definition** of the component must be included in the list entry undernearth the components key, not just the portions you wish to change.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info
When [defining components](#configure-individual-deployment-components), you must include the full definition of the component in the list entry after the components key, instead of only the components you want to define.
:::
```

I don't know that we need this mentioned twice, verbatim.

:::tip

> KubernetesExecutor Task pod-sizes are created on an as-needed basis and don't have standing resource-requirements. Their resource-requirements are [configured at the task level](#configuring-kubernetes-task-pod-size).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KubernetesExecutor task pod sizes are created on an as-needed basis and don't have persisting resource requirements. Their resource requirements are [configured at the task level](#configure-kubernetes-task-pod-size).
```

:::

Configurable components include:

> **Airflow Scheduler**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Airflow Scheduler**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: scheduler
     au:
       default: 5
       minimum: 5
       limit: 30
     extra:
       - name: replicas
         default: 1
         minimum: 1
         limit: 4
         minAirflowVersion: 2.0.0
   ```

> **Airflow Webserver**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Airflow Webserver**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: webserver
     au:
       default: 5
       minimum: 5
       limit: 30
   ```

> **StatsD**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **StatsD**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: statsd
     au:
       default: 2
       minimum: 2
       limit: 30
   ```

> **Database Connection Pooler (PgBouncer)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Database Connection Pooler (PgBouncer)**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: pgbouncer
     au:
       default: 2
       minimum: 2
       limit: 2
   ```

> **Celery Diagnostic Web Interface (Flower)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Celery Diagnostic Web Interface (Flower)**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: flower
     au:
       default: 2
       minimum: 2
       limit: 2
   ```

> **Redis**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Redis**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: redis
     au:
       default: 2
       minimum: 2
       limit: 2
   ```

> **Celery Workers**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Celery Workers**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: workers
     au:
       default: 10
       minimum: 1
       limit: 30
     extra:
       - name: terminationGracePeriodSeconds
         default: 600
         minimum: 0
         limit: 36000
       - name: replicas
         default: 1
         minimum: 1
         limit: 10
   ```

> **Triggerer**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Triggerer**
```

   ```yaml
   - name: triggerer
     au:
       default: 5
       minimum: 5
       limit: 30
     extra:
       - name: replicas
         default: 1
         minimum: 0
         limit: 2
         minAirflowVersion: 2.2.0
   ```

> ### Configuring the size of KubernetesExecutor Task Pods {#configuring-kubernetes-task-pod-size}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure the size of KubernetesExecutor task pods {#configure-kubernetes-task-pod-size}
```

> Kubernetes Executor task-pods are defined at the task-level with the dag by passing resource-requests as part of `executor_config` into the Operator, as per the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes Executor task pods are defined at the task level when the DAG passes resource requests as part of `executor_config` into the Operator. When not defined, these tasks default to using 1 AU, which is one-tenth of a Vcpu/384 Mi of memory. This means that when you define resource requests or limits for CPU and memory, ensure the [maximum pod size](#configure-max-pod-size) is large enough to avoid errors during pod creation.
```

> When not defined, these tasks default to using 1 AU (one-tenth of a Vcpu/384 Mi of memory).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 
> :::tip
> Ask your Astronomer Resident Architect about options for customizing the default task pod size.
> :::
> 
> :::danger
> Astronomer Software does not automatically raise then namespace-level cumulative resource-limits for pods created by KubernetesExecutor. To avoid pod-creation failures, increase `maxExtraAu`s to support your desired level of resourcing and concurrency.
> :::
> 
> 
> :::tip
> When setting cpu/memory requests/limits, ensure the [maximum pod size](#configuring-max-pod-size) is large enough to avoid errors during pod-creation.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::danger
Astronomer Software does not automatically raise then namespace-level cumulative resource-limits for pods created by KubernetesExecutor. To avoid pod-creation failures, increase `maxExtraAu`s to support your desired level of resourcing and concurrency.
:::
```

> E.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates how to configure resource limits and requests:
```

```
# import kubernetes.client.models as k8s
from kubernetes.client import models as k8s

# define an executor_config with the desired resources
my_executor_config={
  "pod_override": k8s.V1Pod(
      spec=k8s.V1PodSpec(
          containers=[
              k8s.V1Container(
                  name="base",
                  resources=k8s.V1ResourceRequirements(
                      requests={
                          "cpu": "50m",
                          "memory": "384Mi"
                      },
                      limits={
                          "cpu": "1000m",
                          "memory": "1024Mi"
                      }
                  )
              )
          ]
      )
  )
}

# pass in executor_config=my_executor_config to any Operator

#@task(executor_config=my_executor_config)
#def some_task():
 #   ...

#task = PythonOperator(
#    task_id="another_task",
#    python_callable=my_fun,
#    executor_config=my_executor_config
#)

```

> KubernetesExecutor task-pods are limited to the LimitRanges and Quotas defined within the pod namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that KubernetesExecutor task pods are limited to the `LimitRanges` and `quotas` defined within the pod namespace.
```

> ### Customizing Astro Units (AU's) {#redefining-the-au}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize Astro Units (AU's) {#customize-au}
```

:::danger

> Consult with your Astronomer Resident Architect before changing the amount of cpu/memory granted by an AU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consult with your Astronomer Resident Architect before changing the amount of CPU or memory granted by an AU.
```

:::

Configurable options include:

> * `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.cpu` - the amount an AU contributes to the size of a component (in thousandths-of-a-Vcpu) and the size of the LimitRange/ResourceQuota (defaults to 100)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.cpu` - the amount an AU contributes to the size of a component, in thousandths of a vCPU, and the size of the `LimitRange` or `ResourceQuota`, defaults to `100`.
```

> * `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.memory` - the amount an AU contributes to the size of a component (in Mi) and the size of the LimitRange/ResourceQuota (defaults to 384)
> * `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.pods` - the amount an AU contributes to the maximum amount of pods permitted by ResourceQuota (defaults to 1)
> * `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.actualConns` - the amount an AU contributes to the limit of connections to the Postgres server (defaults to 0.5)
> * `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.airflowConns` - the amount an AU contributes to the limit of connections used internally by Airflow to the database connection pooler (defaults to 5)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.memory` - the amount an AU contributes to the size of a component, in Mi, and the size of the `LimitRange` or `ResourceQuota`, set to `384` by default.
* `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.pods` - the amount an AU contributes to the maximum amount of pods permitted by `ResourceQuota`, set to `1` by default.
* `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.actualConns` - the amount an AU contributes to the limit of connections to the Postgres server, set to `0.5` by default.
* `astronomer.houston.config.deployments.astroUnit.airflowConns` - The amount an AU contributes to the limit of connections used internally by Airflow to the database connection pooler, set to `5` by default.
```

> E.g.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code example shows how to set the resources per individual AU:
```
